[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Danny
Sheehan is back with us
again to take a look at what has
happened while we haven't been
looking, and that's
regarding the North Dakota
pipeline and the state
of affairs worldwide.
We'll also take a look at
the state of our tattered US
Constitution and what
we can do, if anything,
to recover some of
our lost integrity.
Danny, we were just talking
off camera and everyone
that's seen you before knows
that my brain is exploding
right now with both
excitement, enthusiasm,
and also to let this
conversation out
into the public because
what you were just saying
before the camera came on--
we were talking about this mass
state of delusion taking place
and how it's becoming
acceptable not
just in the mass
consciousness but even
in individual consciousness now.
I've never seen
anything like it.
And you say that's because we,
the public, have been targeted
and it all started with the
national security state.
This is now-- just,
this conversation
is going to go where it goes.
Just launch in starting there.
>>DANIEL SHEEHAN: Well, what
we've seen in just the last 120
days or so is that
there has been
this extraordinary experience
that our country is going
through where people
are asserting completely
alternative realities.
You know, right from
the inauguration
of the present
administration, for example,
them insisting this was the
largest crowd that had ever
assembled for inauguration.
And then everybody else
comes back in and says,
wait a second, look
at the videos of this.
It's clear that there's less
than a third as many people
here who were here for
the last administration.
>>REGINA: Right.
That was like the very first
crack where people saw,
these things are
passing somehow.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
So somehow, this
is being asserted
in that the administration
is being the most successful
administration in history.
We're making more advances than
have ever been made before.
And yet, none of the
legislation is getting passed
and others are criticizing.
So what's happened then--
and then you get now--
now you have Fox News, an
entire 24-hour-a-day station,
putting out one view of reality.
You have MSNBC putting out
this completely contrary view
of reality.
>>REGINA: Russia
Today is doing theirs.
The Young Turks
are doing theirs.
Everybody has their
view of reality.
>>SHEEHAN: And now you have
access to the internet where
you have these
streaming video things--
the Huffington Post
and all the others--
so people are going
around picking which truth
they want to just engage in.
And so they keep getting
reinforced and reinforced
and then they think
everybody else is lying.
And then what happens is they
start personalizing this.
That the people who have a
different view of reality
than you are bad
people, terrible people.
They're evil people.
And it starts
becoming personalized.
Now this is very much
what happened back
in the 1920s in Germany.
That you started getting these
factions starting to rise.
And what we discovered
was that there
was an intentional
campaign going on back
in the 1920s run
by the Third Reich.
That whole national
fascist party
was putting out
false information
like this undermining
reality for everybody
because they wanted
confusion and chaos so
that they could have a
strong man come forward
and say, look it.
I know you're all confused.
There's all this alternative
sets of facts around.
You just have to listen to me.
I'm the only one that
can tell you the truth.
I'm the one that can solve this.
And so therefore, put
your confidence in me.
And what it did is it led
to total disaster for them.
It's threatening disaster
now for our country
and people can see it happening.
>>REGINA: Why do you say the
source is the national security
state.
What does that mean?
>>SHEEHAN: Because
what happened is
that at the end of World
War II, the United States,
for the first time in history,
passed a National Security
Act where they created a
Central Intelligence Agency that
was explicitly authorized to
go around the world disrupting
other people's elections.
To disrupt other people's
democratic choices
that they wanted to make.
Whatever economic
system they wanted.
Whatever political
They said, we're not
going to allow that.
We're going to go in-- and
so that what happened is they
developed a whole covert
operations directorate inside
the CIA and they developed this
talent they called a public
diplomacy capacity,
where they would--
>>REGINA: It sounds
innocuous enough.
>>SHEEHAN: It does.
It does.
It's one of those euphemisms.
But what they would
do is they would go in
and they would
infiltrate the news
stations in other countries.
They would infiltrate
the newspapers.
They would force-feed them
information that was false.
And it turns out
that what happened
is, when the policies of that
Central Intelligence Agency
started to be challenged--
when people started getting
upset about what they
were doing around the world--
they turned all of those
skills onto the public
here in the United States.
For example, in 1980--
well I remember, in 1975,
1976, following the Watergate
burglary, that the
Watergate hearings revealed,
to their complete surprise,
that the Watergate
burglary had to do with the
assassination of President
Kennedy.
And they were so
shocked, they then
put together a special
select committee
to reinvestigate
the assassination.
And the Church Committee
inside the United States Senate
started investigating what
kind of illegal conduct
the CIA was engaged in.
They began to suspect that there
was an element inside the CIA.
That it created a political
assassination team.
And there was reason to believe
that may be the team that
assassinated the president.
So there was this
period for about three
or four years where the
United States Senate started
investigating what the
consequences were of having set
up the National Security Act.
And what happened is the
covert operations division
of the Central Intelligence
Agency started bringing money
in out of the Nugan
Hand Bank in Australia
where money had been being put
in as they were shaving profits
off the heroin trafficking
in Southeast Asia.
>>REGINA: Coming out of
Southeast Asia, yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: They put it
in the Nugan Hand Bank.
They brought that money in and
they targeted Senator Frank
Church, who was
chairing the committee
in the Senate investigating
the covert operations.
And they poured millions
of dollars into his state
up in Idaho, revealing
that he in fact--
>>REGINA: To discredit him.
>>SHEEHAN: Well to show that
he supported the Equal Rights
Amendment and that he supported
some restrictions on guns.
And so they defeated him.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEEHAN: They went
after Dick Clark in Iowa
because he'd opposed their
covert operations in Africa.
And they eliminated him.
They went after Birch
Bayh in Indiana.
They got rid of him.
They targeted Alan
Cranston in California.
They targeted George McGovern.
What they were doing
is they were bringing
home domestically the same
kind of special operations
that they've been allowed to
engage in all around the world
allegedly on behalf
of anti-communism.
To get rid of any kind of
socialist or too progressive
a set of politicians,
they would destroy them.
So what they did is they
turned their guns back on us.
And not only did they
target those senators,
but they targeted the
president of the United States
with Jimmy Carter.
And they actually undertook
negotiations with Hezbollah
to hold our 52 hostages that
had been taken from the American
Embassy in Iran and to hold
them until after the election
so that they could make
President Jimmy Carter look
impotent so that Ronald
Reagan could then win.
And Ronald Reagan's vice
president, George H.W. Bush,
had been the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEEHAN: And his
cohort operations people,
Theodore Shakley, who had been
the head of Covert Operations,
is the guy that ran that entire
operation against the senators
and the president.
So what happened is
that they succeeded
in stopping the investigation
of the national security state.
So what they did then is
they turned their guns
on the people who might
oppose them in the future.
And that they set
up an entire regime
so that when Jimmy Carter
had come into power,
they set up this whole
off-the-shelf enterprise
that people heard about during
the Iran-Contra scandal.
They set up this
whole operation,
which was run by Theodore
Shakley, the head of Covert
Operations for the CIA.
They set up a whole
alternative government,
and they had their own--
they had their own army.
They had their own air force.
They had their own navy.
And what they were doing was
pursuing a complete alternative
set of policies from those that
the American government were
being told were
the real policies.
So that the people were
living in this illusion.
They were being told that the
United States government was
in favor of democracy.
We were going around helping
people around the world
to sustain democratic regimes.
Whereas, in fact,
the real policy
was the secret
covert operation that
was going on through the
CIA where they were toppling
democratic governments.
They were putting fascist
dictators into power.
They were training people
in torture and disappearing
dissidents.
So there was this
whole kind of period
that went on when there was
this invisible government really
functioning abroad, and
there was this public--
>>REGINA: Well, it
still is functioning.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah, yeah.
Well, sure it is,
because they never
did-- they didn't stop them
in the Iran-Contra situation.
And what the special
prosecutor, Lawrence Walsh,
said at the conclusion
of his investigation--
he indicted the first
six of the people that
were involved in this,
people that we had named out
of the Christic Institute.
We had named them in this
major federal racketeering
lawsuit that we had
filed against them,
and so he indicted
the first six of them.
And then George H.W. Bush,
the former head of the Central
Intelligence Agency who had now
become president of the United
States, he just pardoned them
all and let them walk away.
And so the special
prosecutor said, look it,
if you don't stop
these people right now,
you're going to have to come
to grips with these people
sooner than you might imagine.
And they won't be operating
now under the cover
of anti-communism.
It will be anti-terrorism.
And--
>>REGINA: Ah, there
you go, it was set up.
>>SHEEHAN: --they're
going to use that umbrella
to come after you.
>>REGINA: So there was a set-up.
OK, so now we have
the situation today.
We have the prosecution,
the arms of prosecution
and the points of
prosecution really starting
to multiply in terms of this
whole Russian interference
with the election.
First of all, I think it's
fair to say there really
are no good guys here.
What you just detailed
is the same thing
we've done to that country.
In fact, a man named
George Gorton, who I know,
he's an acquaintance--
anybody watching needs
to watch the film called
"Spinning Boris."
That's his life
story about how they
were able to install Yeltsin
into office in Russia.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: This political--
what do you call it--
just beyond a consultant, but
a political consultancy firm
here installed Yeltsin.
So here you have a drunk who
had one photo op where he was
putting a tree in the ground.
And then--
>>SHEEHAN: And the other
one standing on the tank.
>>REGINA: Standing on a tank.
>>SHEEHAN: There's two pictures.
>>REGINA: They
put him in office,
and his daughter ends up
running the country after that.
Let's just start with that.
What was the
advantage to Yeltsin
being in office from the
American point of view?
>>SHEEHAN: Well, because
what happened is that--
>>REGINA: Was that their
first democratically-elected
president?
>>SHEEHAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
>>SHEEHAN: Yes, that's
right, that's right.
>>REGINA: So they knew
how to manipulate masses,
and the Russians
were naive then.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
And what had happened is that
Gorbachev, President Gorbachev,
had opened negotiations with the
George H.W. Bush administration
that was in power
from 1988 to 1992.
And he opened negotiations
and said, look it,
I'm perfectly willing to sign
an authorization releasing
all the republics from the
Soviet Socialist Republics
to be free countries
if you will assure me
that you will not try to
bring those into NATO to try
to surround us.
And James Baker III and
George H.W. Bush, Sr.,
they gave them his assurance
they would not do that.
And so he signed this
authorization allowing all
those countries to become free.
And what happened is
that when Carter came in,
when Carter was elected--
or excuse me, when Bill
Clinton was elected after that,
he honored that agreement.
But when W. Bush came into
office with Dick Cheney,
they immediately
started recruiting
all of those republics
into NATO and started
putting nuclear missiles
surrounding, surrounding
the entire Russian country.
And the last one in the
chain they were going after
was Crimea.
They were going
after the Ukraine.
And so that's what
instigated all of that stuff
in the Ukraine, because now
they saw this happening.
They saw them coming after it.
So they had a plebiscite, a
completely open plebiscite.
And the people in Crimea,
98% of them, everybody
recognizes that that
was a reflection
of their true sentiments,
that they did not
want to leave the
relationship with Russia.
And so what happened
is the administration
started characterizing that
as this massive invasion,
that they were invading
an independent country.
And so our entire
population here at home
was being subjected
to a public diplomacy
campaign, a public diplomacy
campaign that was being--
>>REGINA: Well, you call it
brainwashing but whatever.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah,
it's propaganda.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's propaganda.
>>SHEEHAN: But they liked
if it was a public, this--
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>SHEEHAN: So that was going
on by the Central Intelligence
Agency.
They had this whole
public diplomacy campaign
going on where they were
convincing the American people
that Vladimir Putin was
this terrible, aggressive
imperialist that was trying
to take over the world.
And here, look, he
took over Crimea,
and completely ignoring the
fact that the United States had
violated the agreement they had,
were putting missiles in all
around.
So that what you saw was this
incredible propaganda campaign
that was going on.
And so that the
reason that I say
that this is all a product of
the national security state
is because back in 1947,
at the end of World War II,
the creation of the
Central Intelligence Agency
was a function of the
National Security Act of 1947.
And in 1947, there was a
secret study that was done.
It was called the
Doolittle Report,
the actual author of which
was is a different guy.
The bottom line
is what they said
is, oh, look, we have to
establish a secret organization
that is going to be
capable of subverting
any other efforts
around the world
to put anybody into power.
Even if, in fact,
they democratically
want to have a different
form of government,
we can't allow that to happen.
They have to be favorable to
our interests and the interests
of our corporations.
And so that what we're
going to have to do
is we're going to have to
develop this agency that
is more ruthless and savage
than the conduct that
is undertaken against them.
And he said that
we're going to have
to suspend the American
concept of fair play,
and there may come
a point in time
in which we have to notify the
American people about this.
But in any event, we cannot
allow these other governments
to fall under the control of
socialist or ultra-progressive
governments.
And so that was their mission
right from the very beginning.
But the thing that
people didn't realize
is that that was
being run by people
who were, in fact, recruited
from the Third Reich
at the end of World War II--
Reinhard Gehlen and
that whole operation.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>SHEEHAN: The
whole [INAUDIBLE]..
>>REGINA: Yeah, we
talked about that,
I think, in our last interview.
>>SHEEHAN: That's exactly right.
It's a fascist mentality.
And the theory of
the fascism was
that you would establish
a theory of government
pursuant to which the government
would, in fact, subsidize
the corporations to be
doing all kinds of research
and development so they could
develop weapons in a smaller
economy and that there
would be a marriage
between the corporations
and the government.
That's what fascism actually is.
And that's what the theory was.
That was the theory of
economic development.
It was state capitalism,
not independent capitalism,
not laissez-faire economics.
It was state capitalism.
It would be subsidized by
the tax monies of the state.
And that's what we
were faced with.
The fascists ended up taking
over the Central Intelligence
Agency and running the
covert operations worldwide.
And what they used as
a part of their system
was this public
diplomacy problem.
Because what they
would do is they
would put out a complete fiction
about what reality really was,
and they would have this entire
off-the-shelf enterprise,
covert operations,
going in secret.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEEHAN: And what
really has happened here
is our generation, our
generation, the baby boomer
generation, started shining
a light on that, started
shining a light on that
and saying, look it,
you're being deceived.
People are being deceived.
So what happened is the national
security state said, oh, good,
we can take advantage
of this, too.
We said, look it, you're
all being deceived.
You're all being deceived.
You can't really tell who's
telling the truth anymore.
So what happened is
you began to get this
what they call post-modernism.
They promoted an
entire philosophy
that there is no
such thing as truth.
Everybody has their own
relative perspective on truth.
There's no such thing
as truth, really.
And this entire postmodern
worldview began to develop.
And Pope Francis has referred
to this in his global climate
change encyclical.
Back in 2015, he
said that you need
to understand that there are
these major corporations that
are plundering the planet in
that they're developing all
this oil and natural gas,
and they're poisoning
the entire environment.
And they've developed an entire
philosophy of post-modernism.
Because they generated a
system they called consumerism,
that you can't really
tell what the truth is
on the basis of which
you can value yourself,
value anybody else,
that all you have-- you
can think that you're
worth what you consume.
There's this whole
consumerist mentality.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SHEEHAN: And so that
you are what you have--
big, conspicuous consumption.
If you've got a big
house, a big car,
you've got kids in
private schools,
then you're sophisticated.
You're an elite.
You're of value.
And he said that this
is all being supported
by a philosophy of
post-modernism, which destroys
any kind of
epistemological system
pursuant to which you can
find out what the truth is.
This has all been
fostered and promoted
by the national security state.
>>REGINA: OK, let's get to
that now and look at some
overlays directly how
it's being reflected.
But first, a philosophical
talk about this.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We have become--
the public at large, I
think, people in general,
tend to have been easily led.
I think from the
beginning of our history,
people tend to be
somewhat easily led
because there's a certain
trusting aspect of humanity
in anything that resembles
authority, which has really
negated any ability to
have nuanced thinking.
And this, to me, I'm seeing
more and more really important--
the fact that
people are complex,
that agendas are complex,
human beings are complex.
You can have someone who
has maybe in the public view
done something that
is not good, right?
But at the same time, we
already know historically
some things that they
have done or that they
have worked on behalf of
that are quite beneficial
to humankind.
Yet the headline's
going to grab what's
been done that's not good
in the eyes of the public,
and we no longer are capable of
seeing the rest of the story.
I'm just using that as a
very simplistic example,
but it's happening
across the board.
We can't think in nuanced
ways as a culture anymore.
>>SHEEHAN: This is
a problem because--
Rudolf Steiner--
>>REGINA: Yes, big fan.
>>SHEEHAN: --said that if you
allow the state government
to run the schools,
they will not
train the students
to think critically,
because they do not want
the government criticized.
And that's what's happened.
Since the end of World
War II and the rise
of this national
security state, that you
have to stand up at the
beginning of the class
and pledge allegiance
to the flag.
They used to have
prayers in schools
so that they were promoting
Christianity over all the rest
of the different religions.
So Christianity and nationalism
became kind of melded together
as a patriotic thing
to be Christian here
in the United States.
And if you ask any
questions about it
or challenge it in any
way, you're unpatriotic.
And so that we began to
generate is a state-run system
of schools that didn't
really question the authority
and didn't think
in a nuanced way.
And they were really,
again, basically trying
to train the people
to be part of the cogs
in this corporate machine
so they could get a better
job working for corporations.
>>REGINA: So the
question is now,
I mean, other than the obvious,
educate your children privately
or however you see fit.
>>SHEEHAN: Homeschool them.
>>REGINA: Homeschool
them, exactly.
Now we have, en masse, a
real problem of very simple
thinkers, in general.
>>SHEEHAN: Simplistic.
>>REGINA: Simplistic.
Not to say simple-minded.
>>REGINA: Not
simple-minded, simplistic.
>>SHEEHAN: Right,
simplistic thinking.
>>REGINA: Yes, and what they
will embrace as a viewpoint.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: We need to look
at, for a moment here,
at the way out of
that before we go
into this overlay of deception
in our current situation.
How do we find our
way out of that
and develop discernment
and nuanced thinking again?
>>SHEEHAN: I think that one of
the best opportunities that we
have now is a number of the
major private universities
in the country are starting
to put their courses online,
and that people can
actually go online,
if they will take
the time to do it,
and they can actually sit
and participate in the class.
They can watch the class, the
lecture, being broadcast live.
They can listen to
the questions that
are being asked by the
students, et cetera.
People have access now to an
independent private education
if they will take
the time to do this.
But the problem
is is that they're
being bombarded on television
with sports and soap
operas and game shows and
all these distracting kind
of shiny things to
attract their attention.
And I think that, for
example, the courses--
I teach a course
every single spring
at the University of California
in Santa Cruz, California.
And that people can go on our
website, the Romero Institute,
romeroinstitute.org, and they
can just click on Classes.
And for example, I deliver
20 90-minute lectures
on the assassination
of President Kennedy,
reviewing all of the
alternative theories,
laying out all of the
positive and negative aspects
to each of the theories.
>>REGINA: To lead people to
come to their conclusion.
>>SHEEHAN: So people
can look at this
and decide what it is they
think happened here, OK?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEEHAN: I've
done the same thing
with a number of other
different issues.
And so that's just one kind
of course that's available.
>>REGINA: Well, I've heard
that some universities--
I've read that some universities
are actually now starting
to put classes that
are essentially
the philosophy of truth
back on the menu--
>>SHEEHAN: They are.
They are.
>>REGINA: --because
it's been so distorted.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, we're
working out at the University
of California to try to
get critical thinking--
>>REGINA: Critical thinking.
>>SHEEHAN: --entire courses on--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SHEEHAN: --critical thinking.
So I think there's hope here.
We don't want to overstate
the problem here.
I don't think that
the national security
state here in the United
States has gotten itself firmly
in control.
You saw us rise up against it
with the Pentagon Papers case.
You saw us rise up against
it with the Iran-Contra case.
We generated-- the churches and
synagogues around the country
generated the American sanctuary
movement to bring people in
out of South America that were
being targeted by these regimes
that the CIA create
down there, and they
were sharing the information.
We're within striking
distance of being
able to pull out of this thing.
>>REGINA: I think so.
Also, you have a couple
of young sons, or--
>>SHEEHAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: --youngish,
younger than you, right?
And in any event, I
see a great amount
of hope just in that
generation alone, because, A,
they're turning off media.
But they're going
to their own sources
that they resonate with so that
they're still in that matrix,
but they tend to not buy
into the larger public story.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, there's two
generations of our children.
The children that
were born earlier
are in the X
Generation, and the ones
that have been
born more recently
are in the Millennial
Generation.
>>REGINA: Yeah, my son's right
on the edge of the Millennials.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
And the Millennials are quite
progressive and quite creative.
In fact, 83%--
>>REGINA: And they're
not buying the stories.
>>SHEEHAN: No, no, no.
83% of them voted for Bernie
Sanders in the primaries.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SHEEHAN: And they're
saying, look it,
they want progressive solutions.
They can see through a
lot of this propaganda.
They know that we need to
have a single-payer health
system, like most of the other
civilized major industrial
countries have.
They're quite progressive.
The X Generation,
however, has been caught
right in this kind of cynicism.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SHEEHAN: That they
don't believe people.
They don't believe anybody.
And so that they think that
getting ahead financially
is the only solid plan for them.
And so that they're looking.
They go to Wall Street.
They become bond salesmen.
They do these things.
And we're engaged in a process.
The Baby Boom Generation and
the Millennial Generation,
are basically
involved in a project
of trying to help
the X Generation get
past this kind of cynical--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SHEEHAN: --lack
of belief in things.
>>REGINA: Well, an
interesting thing, too, again,
this lack of nuanced
thinking, a headline
that came up
recently as a result
of the shooting at the
congressional baseball game,
right, of a Republican.
Bernie Sanders is
now coming under fire
because this man was
a volunteer for him.
So what's the press do?
They take off and riff
on the fact this guy
volunteered for Bernie Sanders.
>>SHEEHAN: Well, Newt
Gingrich came out with it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SHEEHAN: So what you
have is that there's
a kind of choreography
of this kind of coloring
of every story that
comes out to have
to put it into this dialectical,
confrontational mode.
And Newt Gingrich came
straight out immediately,
started saying, look it,
you remember this guy
volunteered for Bernie Sanders.
See what they're--
>>REGINA: Like this
was Bernie's fault now.
>>SHEEHAN: --yeah, then
you see what they're like.
>>REGINA: But the
programming is just--
it's almost laughable.
>>SHEEHAN: Well,
because that one
of the worldviews that the
nihilists try to descend to,
once they can destroy any basic
belief in any kind of reality
at all, they drop
into this thing
of what they call the dialectic,
which is the second paradigm
worldview.
Kant said that it
was true, ultimately,
that individuals, because we're
conditioned by our genetics,
by our culture that
we're brought up in,
that we have a biased
perspective on reality.
Kant pointed that out.
But what happened
is they followed up
with that by saying, look--
Nietzsche followed up
with this and Hegel.
And they were saying,
look, given the fact
that you can't come up with
an absolute insight into what
reality is, what you can do
is you can follow a dialectic.
You can have one party
set up a thesis as to what
their view of reality is.
Another person can
set up an anti-thesis
that's contrary to that.
And you could have them have
this kind of confrontation,
this struggle--
>>REGINA: And keep people
trapped between the two.
>>SHEEHAN: --this
dialectic, if you want.
And the ostensible
result of that
is to burn away the false
aspects of both perspectives
and generate a new synthesis.
But that synthesis immediately
becomes a new thesis.
It generates an anti-thesis.
>>REGINA: I was going to
say, mostly people are just
hung up between the two.
>>SHEEHAN: And this is what
is presently dominating
the thinking in the country.
That's why people-- you get
millions and millions of people
watching the Oakland Golden
State Warriors fighting
the Cleveland Cavaliers--
another military thing.
You have the green team
versus the red team.
>>REGINA: Purple or--
>>SHEEHAN: You have the red
team versus the white team.
You have the red team versus
the blue team in politics.
This is a dialectic, in which
the underpinning theory of that
is that you can't tell
what the truth is.
That you've got to have two
completely contradictory people
clashing and that you can't
really tell what the truth is.
This is a second
paradigm worldview
that the military
industrial state feeds on.
And that's why the minute we
got to the end of the Cold War,
there was this period
where President Gorbachev
and others-- we all came
together to try to say,
look can't we come
up with something
to replace this dialectical,
confrontational, competitive
worldview?
And that the American public
has been force-fed on this
football, baseball--
hating your next door community,
because you play baseball
or football against them.
Let's get past this thing and
set up a new paradigm worldview
that is much more unitive,
and cooperative, and mutually
beneficial for everyone.
And we said, but we knew we only
had a short window within which
to do that, because the
national security state thrives
upon the dialectic.
>>REGINA: Well, maybe we can
look at it as just delayed.
>>SHEEHAN: Well,
no, it is delayed.
>>REGINA: It's just delayed.
It's not like it's
not going to happen.
>>SHEEHAN: No, no.
They're pushing us back.
And we knew we had
a short period here.
And what happened, of
course, immediately was 9/11.
And you had the W. Bush
administration saying,
you're either with
us or against us.
You're either going to support
us on this war on terrorism.
And then they started
coming up with this theory
that there was this
drive for a caliphate,
that the Islamic jihadists were
trying to establish a caliphate
to impose Sharia law over
everybody in the world.
Complete propaganda--
>>REGINA: False
head-- all false--
>>SHEEHAN: --complete
propaganda.
What they're doing
is opposing our
having invaded the oil fields
at the end of the Cold War.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SHEEHAN: Seized
control of the oil fields
and they've been trying
to get us to leave.
And that's what's
happening here.
>>REGINA: Self-defense really.
>>SHEEHAN: So what
we're trying to say here
is that we do not
want people to despair
in thinking that either
there is no truth at all
or that the only way
you can get at the truth
is by having this dialectical,
confrontational fight all
the time that
inevitably leads to war.
So that's what we have to
come to grips with right now.
But we're in a temporary
period right here where
nihilism has taken over.
No belief in truth at all.
You have a present
administration
that thinks that
they can say anything
and the problem is is
that if the other people
respond to that by thinking
that they're the problem--
if you can only get rid of
them, everything will be OK.
That's just more dialectics.
>>REGINA: Exactly, because
then there'll be another them.
OK.
That brings up-- let's
just put the spotlight
on what's happening then.
This is very complex.
Looking at it through the
lens of the mass manipulation
as a result of the
national security state,
and how we're being
manipulated by the media
on the Russian affair,
and what's actually
happening legally and
constitutionally with that,
because this is interesting.
I think there could be
some breakthroughs here.
>>SHEEHAN: It's an
extraordinary moment--
it's an extraordinary
moment right now, Regina.
We have another incidence
where you actually,
for one of the very few times,
you actually see real events
taking place in Congress.
People asking questions
that aren't scripted,
demanding answers that
aren't pre-canned,
and just going
through this shadow
play of pretending that
they're all disagreeing
and they all end up agreeing.
There's a real event
going on right now.
And what's happened is that
our country has recognized
that the tactics that we
were adopting internationally
to manipulate other
people's elections
and make sure that
adequately conservative
and capitalist supporting
regimes were put into power--
they're saying oh,
this is terrible,
somebody has done this to us.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I know.
It's ironic.
>>SHEEHAN: That they've
actually propagandized us.
They've actually gotten
to release information
about Hillary Clinton
that is negative.
And so therefore, it
depressed her vote,
and therefore, Trump has won.
Trump has a policy of
trying to establish
more constructive
relations with Russia,
and so therefore, they
manipulated our election
to get him elected.
And now people are
horrified by this.
A product of the
fantasy that they
were fed before that the
United States was not
engaging in that activity.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SHEEHAN: So they are
horrified like in "Casablanca,"
with Rick-- oh no, there's
gambling going on right here.
>>REGINA: Just like virgins,
we've been violated.
>>SHEEHAN: Yes, exactly.
And so but what's
happening right now
is that we have an
opportunity to start
asking fundamental
constitutional questions again.
And one of the major
constitutional questions
that are in front of us
right now is is there in fact
an independent
investigatory capacity that
exists in Congress or
in the judicial branch
to be able to examine
the executive branch?
Or does the executive
branch have total power?
Can the President of the
United States, for example,
fire any FBI director,
any member of the Justice
Department, who are
attempting to investigate
whether his campaign
worked in collusion
with the Russian government to
try to manipulate our election?
And the--
>>REGINA: Well, what about
the special prosecutor, even
more so?
>>SHEEHAN: Robert Mueller.
Robert Mueller, at the present
time-- it's interesting,
they immediately
started referring to him
as the special counsel
or special prosecutor.
He ain't that.
>>REGINA: What is he?
>>SHEEHAN: No.
He has been hired by
the Justice Department.
He's been hired by the
acting assistant attorney
general, because Jeff Sessions
has recused himself ostensibly.
And so the acting assistant
attorney general simply
hired an additional
outside counsel
who is an employee of
the Justice Department
to come in to
conduct a supposedly
independent investigation.
Now, because of the quality of
Robert Mueller, a lot of people
trust him to engage in
an independent review.
>>REGINA: Do you?
I mean this is--
>>SHEEHAN: Well,
it's interesting.
I was troubled by the fact
that Comey, in his testimony,
said that he released
his own memoranda--
these contemporary notes on his
meeting with the president--
he released them to the public
for the purpose of getting
a special prosecutor appointed.
There was a period of
time shortly following
the Watergate scandal
when the Congress had
passed a special statute, called
the special prosecutor statute.
And this said that if in fact,
the executive department--
any high level official in
is being investigated and
the Justice Department,
because it's subject to the
control of the president,
can't be trusted to
investigate them independently,
or the president can fire
anybody that investigates it
too closely--
any associate of his or
political appointee of his--
that there needs to be a
special statute authorizing
the judicial branch
of the government--
a special panel that is
set up inside the D.C.
Circuit Court of Appeals--
there's a special panel of
judges for the appointment
of special prosecutors.
And they can appoint a
genuinely independent person
to investigate.
>>REGINA: Is that what's
happened with Mueller?
>>SHEEHAN: No.
>>REGINA: It is not.
That has not happened yet.
>>SHEEHAN: Because
everybody insisted
upon putting a sunset
clause on that statute
and so it dissipated after
10 years and went away.
>>REGINA: Can it be revived?
>>SHEEHAN: It can.
And so that if in
fact the president
tried to fire
Mueller now, which he
has the constitutional
authority to do--
>>REGINA: He's threatened to.
Right?
>>SHEEHAN: Well, it's not clear.
Newt Gingrich has said, that
the president is discussing this
and his authority to do this.
And that set up this
kind of wildfire
by other people being
worried he might do it.
If he were to do that, then
Congress could then simply
convene and reenact the
special prosecutor statute,
re-establish a special
select group of the judges
on the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia,
and have them appoint an
independent prosecutor.
>>REGINA: But wouldn't that
require bipartisanship?
>>SHEEHAN: Yes, it would.
And so the question is
really is whether enough
of the Republican
members of Congress
would be so offended by the
president firing Mueller
that they would
agree to do this.
And that's the operational
question that's on the floor
right now.
Is if, in fact, the
president were to do that,
would there be enough
support from the Republicans
in Congress to enact a new
special prosecutor act?
And if they did,
it's almost certain
that the person who
would be appointed
would be Robert Mueller again.
>>REGINA: There you go.
>>SHEEHAN: And so that what
they would be doing is saying,
see you can't get
away with doing that,
even though you can get
away with doing that.
>>REGINA: Kind of like
the travel ban thing.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: You can do it,
but it's not going to hold.
>>SHEEHAN: The
judicial branch is
going to rise up and check you.
And that's what would
happen I think here,
if he were to do that.
Now what we hear the
latest thing for us
that we hear is not only
that Robert Mueller is
now for the first
time investigating
the president himself for
potentially being involved
in colluding with the
Russians, but specifically
for obstructing the
investigation by firing
the Head of the FBI--
Comey-- and going to
the Director of National
Intelligence and
going to the others
to try to get them to
pressure the FBI to stop
the investigation.
I think that what we can have
is a potential in the 2018
election and the 2020 election
coming up, to actually
have a genuinely progressive
alternative that says,
look everybody agrees that we
want to get past this thing.
And so that if there is a
genuine independent party--
not an independent
party that just
doesn't have any
positions on things
or just I don't like
either one of them--
that's not-- I mean, in
a certain sense that's
independent.
But what you really have to do
is develop a set of commitments
to constitutional
principles, a commitment
to truth and honesty, a
commitment to integrity.
All the things that
have been pretended
to be operational in
the United States.
But what we can do is
we can catch them up
on this, because they've
always promised that this is
what the offer is that we have.
And so if we can just
come forward and say,
look we're going to have an
independent party that is
genuinely independent, it is
committed to the bedrock values
of our American Constitution--
not some reactionary reading
of the Constitution that took a
photograph of the Constitution
in 1789, and said, that's an
original interpretation and you
can't have women's rights,
because they weren't included
and all of that--
but a genuinely intentional
and progressive view of this.
An independent
view that is rooted
in constitutional scholarship.
And to begin to elect
a set of legislators
who are independent
from both sides,
genuinely, and will hold
control inside the legislatures
to begin to start to implement
the true vision of the American
Constitution in
American history.
>>REGINA: Hear, hear.
>>SHEEHAN: That's our chance.
>>REGINA: It is.
I agree with you wholeheartedly.
But for now, we have to let
investigations, justice,
and such play out honestly.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: We haven't
done that in a long time.
>>SHEEHAN: No.
We have not done that.
>>REGINA: It has to
be allowed to proceed.
>>SHEEHAN: And as
they say, everything
is politicized in Washington DC.
>>REGINA: Yeah, everything.
>>SHEEHAN: And so
that the question
is whether Mueller is going
to be able to rise above this.
The reason why both
Republicans, Democrats respect
him is being said, because
he's genuinely honest,
generally is a man of integrity.
So if he lives up
to that billing
and goes completely through
with this investigation,
and reveals the
fact that there has
been this manipulation of the
voting going on for some time,
and that there needs
to be consequences
for both the Republican
and Democratic Party.
That people have to stop
having this blind trust
in one or the other.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SHEEHAN: That they are not
the repositories of truth.
There needs to be an
independent view of this.
independent party.
There needs to be a party that
takes a complete and close
honest look at global climate
change, what the evidence is,
so that you're not trapped in
one extreme view or another
of this.
Let's get an honest
view of this.
To get an honest view
of the issue of how
we are going to be dealing
with the racial problem
in our country,
of the racism that
is a remnant of our
institution of slavery.
If we're going to have an honest
look at what the consequences
are of the misogyny
against women
and have a completely
honest view of what
this is and the
view of our system.
We've got to get rid
of the corporations.
The corporations have only
existed since the Robber Baron
era, where you have
this thing set up
where the owners
of the companies
are completely immunized
against any personal liability,
because they're stockholders.
The management is completely
immune from liability.
The board of directors
is completely
immune from liability.
So that only the corporation and
the assets of the corporation
are all that are potentially
subject to any kind
of punishment.
Any sinful structure
like that, just
as Pope Francis points out
again in his global encyclical
of June of 2015--
this is a sinful structure.
And what it's done
is it's taken control
of our entire government.
And it's now set up
a fascist government
getting our government to be at
the bidding of the corporations
and the owners of
the corporations.
We've got to have an
independent party that is
going to stop the corporations.
They're created by the state.
They're a government creation.
Without a license to
perform like this,
they're going to be liable.
And we're not against capitalism
or entrepreneurialism.
If people want to
have a business,
and want to make a
reasonable profit,
and want to be held responsible
for any damages done
by their business--
fine, let them do that.
>>REGINA: But the inhumane
practices have to stop,
because the large
corporations are essentially
behaving in an inhumane way.
>>SHEEHAN: They are
sinful structures.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SHEEHAN: And they
need to be taken apart.
And even the Libertarian Party,
with all of its shortcomings,
had in its platform
for years that
the state-sponsored corporations
have to be eliminated.
>>REGINA: I think most of
the people listening to this
are on the same page
with you on that one.
>>SHEEHAN: Yes.
And so what I'm
saying is that there
are some keys to the
solution to this problem.
And I think we have to have an
independent party like that.
I think we need to start
mounting candidates
and we have to speak
out about this.
We have to come to grips
with the injustice that
is being performed to the
Native American people.
>>REGINA: We're going to get
right on that in just a second.
But what's beautiful and hopeful
about all this is I'm starting
to see-- we're all
starting to see--
incidences around
the country where
totally unexpected and
unlikely people are popping
up and running for office.
And they're just claiming
to be honest citizens that
are somewhat informed.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
That's right.
>>REGINA: And that's beautiful.
That's how it should be.
Maybe again then we
can start reflecting
the wishes of the people.
>>SHEEHAN: Yeah.
And one of the things
that needs to be done
is to have people
step forward and take
advantage of the
internet that exists now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Absolutely.
>>SHEEHAN: To put these
college courses online
so that young kids in
their early years--
in junior high school
and high school--
can watch these courses,
learn critical thinking.
Even though their public
schools are run by the state,
that they can
stand up in class--
>>REGINA: Self-educate.
>>SHEEHAN: --and say,
look I've seen this thing,
I don't agree with what
you're saying here.
And there need to be enough
of them, so they don't say,
well, you're going to get
expelled, because you're
disrupting the class,
interfering with what
we're trying to teach here.
So I think that the
internet presents
an extraordinary
opportunity for us
to establish a genuinely
independent political party
and to get back to the
bedrock values of the American
Constitution, and to
share these values
in an open and honest way
with people around the world.
Not coerce them.
Not invade them.
Not infiltrate them.
Not set up covert
operations against them.
You make these options available
for the people of the world
and see what the people do.
I think the people will respond.
I really do.
>>REGINA: I do too.
We're on the same page.
I see it bright ahead.
We just have some more muck
to go through looks like.
>>SHEEHAN: We've got a temporary
period of some challenges.
>>REGINA: Yes, we do.
OK.
So let's move on to the Lakota.
You're their counsel.
And there was recently
a very hopeful headline
that came up and--
we only have a couple
of minutes on that,
because I want to get
to something really,
really, really hopeful.
So tell us what's going on.
>>SHEEHAN: On June 14, the
United States District Court
in Washington DC,
Judge Boasberg,
entered an opinion stating that
it was unlawful for the US Army
Corps of Engineers under
the Trump administration
to have granted a
certificate of easement
to the Dakota Access
Pipeline to allow them
to complete construction
and start pumping oil
through the pipeline.
>>REGINA: Which they've done.
>>SHEEHAN: Which
they've done not
in small part, because
Boasberg didn't enter
a temporary restraining
order against them,
which he should have.
And so there's been
a lot of cheering
going on now that
he has declared
that that was unlawful.
But the problem
is that because he
had allowed it to
go to completion,
the issue that we really
have to deal with now
is that he has said that
there were three major areas
that the US Army Corps of
Engineers and the Environmental
Protection Agency of the Trump
administration did not consider
and they have to consider those.
The problem is that Judge
Boasberg, in the same opinion,
has stated that, even if now
in retrospect the Environmental
Protection Agency and the
US Army Corps of Engineers
do go back and look
at those issues
and whatever they say--
oh, we've looked at them
and we still determine
that even if we had given
full consideration
of this, we still
should have gotten the
easement, we should
have granted the easement.
And they say, so
therefore, we're
going to remedy those things,
we've considered them,
and we don't think they're
adequately serious that
should stop the pipeline.
And so it's not going to
get you anywhere after that.
And he has said that the court
has very limited authority
to gainsay the kind
of subjective decision
that the agency is going
to make about that.
And he has said that
elections have consequences--
he actually said
it in his opinion--
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK.
>>SHEEHAN: And that
therefore if they
have a judgment that even
after they've considered
those things, they still should
have granted the easement,
then the easement
will still be valid.
So the question that will be
in front of him on June 21,
is whether or not he should stop
the flow of oil in the pipeline
while those considerations
are being evaluated.
And I personally don't
believe he's going to do that.
Because the fact
is it isn't going
to take the Trump administration
EPA and the US Army
Corps of Engineers very long to
turn and look at those things
and say, OK, we've
given those a good look,
we don't think those
are troublesome at all.
And so now we have checked
those little boxes,
we've crossed the t and
dotted the i on those things
that we might have
slipped up on before.
>>REGINA: And the
oil keeps flowing.
>>SHEEHAN: And then
the oil keeps flowing.
And so that what
we're faced with
is a series of
some 800 people who
have been arrested and
charged with crimes
by the state of North Dakota.
And some 150 of them,
180 of them now,
have been dismissed
by the judges
of them having absolutely
no evidence whatsoever
against those people.
But there's still a
remaining 600 people or so.
There's about 50 of them
who have been charged
with serious felony crimes.
But there's only
one person who's
been charged with
inciting the riot,
instigating the insurrection
against the state of North
Dakota as it were,
and that's Chase Iron
Eyes, the Democratic
Party nominee.
The National Democratic
Party nominee
for the 2016 congressional
race for the one single seat
in Congress, in the
House of Representatives
that the state has.
He has been charged
with instigating
the entire insurrection
against the state.
And I'm representing him.
And I'll be representing a
couple of the other people that
have been charged with
participating in the riot.
And he's also been charged
with trespassing, interestingly
enough, on land
where his people have
been for hundreds
and hundreds of years
prior to the US government
insisting they have
taken control of that land.
So there are a number
of major issues
that are still at stake here.
There are other
people to be tried.
I'm just representing
a small handful
of the people that
have key charges that
have been made against them
that give us the opportunity
to raise these
fundamental challenges.
>>REGINA: Oh my gosh, of
course, we've run out of time.
I want to just tease--
just a little tease--
the Monterey Community
Energy Company and what's
happening down
there, because you've
managed to take back control
over your own power company.
>>SHEEHAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that
for two minutes, because we're
over.
>>SHEEHAN: In the
state of California,
under the leadership of
Governor Jerry Brown,
we have passed legislation
that authorizes each county
in the state of California
to set up its own independent
community choice
energy company--
publicly owned, not by
private stockholders
and not-for-profit--
and that they
can purchase completely
clean energy from wind
and solar and tidal power.
And what we've done now is
we've established the largest
community choice energy company
in the country-- in the world
actually-- for the
entire three counties
around Monterey, and Santa
Cruz, and San Benito.
We're now going
to be expanding it
down south into San
Luis Obispo and Ventura
and down in San Diego.
And it's been moving
up north-- it's
now up in northern California.
We're going to move
up the coast line.
We're going to get the state
of Oregon and Washington
to pass these statutes.
And what we're doing is we're
replacing the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company
that is still using coal
and petroleum and natural gas--
>>REGINA: Well, and
the rates they charge.
>>SHEEHAN: And in
fact, we're going
to be selling the
electricity for only 3/4
of what it costs
for the dirty fuel.
And also, we've gotten the
churches and synagogues
of all the denominations
that are now
starting to agree to put solar
panels on all of their churches
and houses of worship.
I keep trying to
get them to call
it the divine light and power.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>SHEEHAN: But the bottom line
is that we have now 48 churches
that are--
the Catholic churches have
led the way on this, because
of Pope Francis' global
encyclical on global climate
change.
So they've agreed to give--
the diocese in Monterey agreed
to give loans to
all the churches
to pay for putting
these on their roofs.
And they're going to be
generating more power than they
really need to pay
for years and then
selling it for one third of its
price to the energy company.
And then they can
sell it for only 3/4
of what they would have to pay.
So everybody is
saving money on this.
And we're going to reduce by
90% the global greenhouse gas
emissions within 10
years in California.
>>REGINA: Love it.
I love it.
We had to get that in
before the end of the show.
Because we were going to spend
a lot of time talking about it,
but there you go.
The other thing I would like
to talk to you down the road--
and we can talk about
this more at length--
about the energy industry and
globally as well, but also
water rights.
This is becoming-- this will
become the next major fight
on the planet.
>>SHEEHAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And we need to see
what our rights are, what
we can do to help assist,
and keeping water out
of private hands.
>>SHEEHAN: Absolutely right.
And what they can do is
people can contact us
at RomeroInstitute.org
And they can find there
on our website Green Power.
That's that one.
And then they can
find Lakota Law.
And they'll talk about both of
these projects that we have.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Thank you so much, Danny.
Next time you come back, we'll
talk about those other issues
we just brought up.
>>SHEEHAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
Always a wonderful, wild,
pleasurable ride with you.
>>SHEEHAN: Terrific.
I appreciate being here.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: As
always, you may need
to take a look at this
interview a second time
with the information
whizzing by so quickly.
For more you might also enjoy
my previous conversations
with Danny in the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]